docs/walkthrough/step-9-corpus-actions.md, before:

# Corpus Actions

## Introduction

If you're familiar with GitHub actions - user-scripted functions that run automatically over a software vcs repository
when certain actions take place (like a merge, PR, etc.) - then a CorpusAction should be a familair concept. You can
configure a celery task using our `@doc_analyzer_task` decorator (see more [here](advanced/register-doc-analyzer.md)
on how to write these) and then configure a `CorpusAction` to run your custom task on all documents added to the target
corpus.

## Setting up a Corpus Action

### Supported Actions

**NOTE:** Currently, you have to configure all of this via the Django admin dashboard (`http://localhost:8000/admin`
if you're using our local deployment), We'd like to expose this functionality using our React frontend, but the required
GUI elements and GraphQL mutations need to be built out. A good starter PR for someone ;-). 

Currently, a CorpusAction can be configured to run one of three types of analyzers automatically:

1. A **data extract** fieldset - in which case, a data extract will be created and run on new documents added to the
   configured corpus (see our guide on setting up a [data extract job](step-8-data-extract.md))
2. An Analyzer
    1. Configured as a "Gremlin Microservice". See more information on configuring a microservice-based analyzer
       [here](advanced/run-gremlin-analyzer.md)
    2. Configured to run a task decorated using the `@doc_analyzer_task` decorator. See more about configuring these
       kinds of tasks [here](advanced/register-doc-analyzer.md).

### Creating Corpus Action

From within the Django admin dashboard, click on CorpusActions or the `+Add` button next to the header:

![img.png](../assets/images/screenshots/Add_Corpus_Action.png)

Once you've opened the create action form, you'll see a number of different options you can configure:

![img.png](../assets/images/screenshots/New_Corpus_Action.png)

See next section for more details on these configuration options.

### Configuration Options for Corpus Action

**Corpus** specifies that an action should run only on a single corpus, specified via dropdown.

**Analyzer** *or* **Fieldset** properties control whether an analysis or data extract runs when the
applicable trigger is run (more on this below). If you want to run a data extract when document is added to the corpus,
select the fieldset defining the data you want to extract. If you want to run an analyzer, select the pre-configured
analyzer. Remember, an analyzer can point to a microservice _or_ a task decorated with @doc_analyzer_task.

**Trigger** refers to the specific action type that should kick off the desired analysis. Currently, we "provide" add
and edit actions - i.e., run specified analytics when a document is added or edited, respectively - _but_ we have not
configured the `edit` action to run.

**Disabled** is a toggle that will turn off the specified `CorpusAction` for ALL corpuses.

**Run on all corpuses** is a toggle that, if `True`, will run the specified action on EVERY corpus. Be careful with this
as it runs for all corpuses for ALL users. Depending on your environment, this could incur a substantial compute cost
and other users may not appreciate this. A nice feature we'd love to add is a more fine-grained set of rules based
access controls to limit actions to certain groups. This would require a substantial investment into the frontend of
the application and remains an unlikely addition, though we'd absolutely welcome contributions!

### Quick Reference - Configuring @doc_analyzer_task + Analyzer

If you write your own `@doc_analyzer_task` and want to run it automatically, let's step through this step-by-step.

1. First, we assume you put a properly written and decorated task in `opencontractserver.tasks.doc_analysis_tasks.py`.
2. Second, you need to create and configure an Analyzer via the Django admin panel. Click on the `+Add` button next to
   the Analyzer entry in the admin sidebar and then configure necessary properties:

   ![img.png](../assets/images/screenshots/configure_analyzer.png)

   Place the name of your task in the `task_name` property -
   e.g. `opencontractserver.tasks.doc_analysis_tasks.contract_not_contract`,
   add a brief description, assign the creator to the desired user, and click save.
3. Now, this `Analyzer` instance can be assigned to a CorpusAction!

Commit message:

Added link to CorpusActions architecture deep dive.

docs/walkthrough/step-9-corpus-actions.md, after:

# Corpus Actions

## Introduction

If you're familiar with GitHub actions - user-scripted functions that run automatically over a software vcs repository
when certain actions take place (like a merge, PR, etc.) - then a CorpusAction should be a familair concept. You can
configure a celery task using our `@doc_analyzer_task` decorator (see more [here](advanced/register-doc-analyzer.md)
on how to write these) and then configure a `CorpusAction` to run your custom task on all documents added to the target
corpus.

## Setting up a Corpus Action

### Supported Actions

**NOTE:** Currently, you have to configure all of this via the Django admin dashboard (`http://localhost:8000/admin`
if you're using our local deployment), We'd like to expose this functionality using our React frontend, but the required
GUI elements and GraphQL mutations need to be built out. A good starter PR for someone ;-).

Currently, a CorpusAction can be configured to run one of three types of analyzers automatically:

1. A **data extract** fieldset - in which case, a data extract will be created and run on new documents added to the
   configured corpus (see our guide on setting up a [data extract job](step-8-data-extract.md))
2. An Analyzer
    1. Configured as a "Gremlin Microservice". See more information on configuring a microservice-based analyzer
       [here](advanced/run-gremlin-analyzer.md)
    2. Configured to run a task decorated using the `@doc_analyzer_task` decorator. See more about configuring these
       kinds of tasks [here](advanced/register-doc-analyzer.md).

### Creating Corpus Action

From within the Django admin dashboard, click on CorpusActions or the `+Add` button next to the header:

![img.png](../assets/images/screenshots/Add_Corpus_Action.png)

Once you've opened the create action form, you'll see a number of different options you can configure:

![img.png](../assets/images/screenshots/New_Corpus_Action.png)

See next section for more details on these configuration options. Once you type in the appropriate configurations and
hit "Save", the specified Analyzer or Fieldset will be run automatically on the specified Corpus! If you want to learn
more about the underlying architecture, check out our [deep dive on `CorpusActions`](../architecture/opencontract-corpus-actions.md).

### Configuration Options for Corpus Action

**Corpus** specifies that an action should run only on a single corpus, specified via dropdown.

**Analyzer** *or* **Fieldset** properties control whether an analysis or data extract runs when the
applicable trigger is run (more on this below). If you want to run a data extract when document is added to the corpus,
select the fieldset defining the data you want to extract. If you want to run an analyzer, select the pre-configured
analyzer. Remember, an analyzer can point to a microservice _or_ a task decorated with @doc_analyzer_task.

**Trigger** refers to the specific action type that should kick off the desired analysis. Currently, we "provide" add
and edit actions - i.e., run specified analytics when a document is added or edited, respectively - _but_ we have not
configured the `edit` action to run.

**Disabled** is a toggle that will turn off the specified `CorpusAction` for ALL corpuses.

**Run on all corpuses** is a toggle that, if `True`, will run the specified action on EVERY corpus. Be careful with this
as it runs for all corpuses for ALL users. Depending on your environment, this could incur a substantial compute cost
and other users may not appreciate this. A nice feature we'd love to add is a more fine-grained set of rules based
access controls to limit actions to certain groups. This would require a substantial investment into the frontend of
the application and remains an unlikely addition, though we'd absolutely welcome contributions!

### Quick Reference - Configuring @doc_analyzer_task + Analyzer

If you write your own `@doc_analyzer_task` and want to run it automatically, let's step through this step-by-step.

1. First, we assume you put a properly written and decorated task in `opencontractserver.tasks.doc_analysis_tasks.py`.
2. Second, you need to create and configure an Analyzer via the Django admin panel. Click on the `+Add` button next to
   the Analyzer entry in the admin sidebar and then configure necessary properties:

   ![img.png](../assets/images/screenshots/configure_analyzer.png)

   Place the name of your task in the `task_name` property -
   e.g. `opencontractserver.tasks.doc_analysis_tasks.contract_not_contract`,
   add a brief description, assign the creator to the desired user, and click save.
3. Now, this `Analyzer` instance can be assigned to a CorpusAction!
